Update "CSS features reference" (#3771)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools/css/reference.md

Author: make sure links accounted for (global in article new sections)

   ![Result of HTML & CSS for the at-position-try at-rule](./reference-images/at-position-try-at-rule-rendered.png)

1. In the **Styles** tab, in the `#submenu` CSS rule, find the `position-try-fallbacks` property, and click its `--bottom` value.

   The **Styles** tab scrolls down to the corresponding `@position-try` section:

   ![The at-position-try section in the Styles tab](./reference-images/position-try-rule-in-styles-tab.png)

1. In the **Styles** tab, in the `#submenu` CSS rule, click the `--submenu` link in any of the following properties:

   ```css
   position-anchor: --submenu;
   left: anchor(--submenu right);
   top: anchor(--submenu top);
   ```

   The DOM tree selects the element (`<button popovertarget="submenu">`) that has the corresponding `popovertarget` attribute value (`popovertarget="submenu"`), and the **Styles** tab shows the element's CSS:

   ![The button element selected in the DOM tree, and its CSS](./reference-images/at-position-try-popovertarget.png)

To edit a value, double-click the value.

See also:
* [The @position-try Rule](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-anchor-position-1/#fallback-rule) in _CSS Anchor Positioning Module Level 1_ at w3.org.

> * [Introducing the CSS anchor positioning API](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/anchor-positioning-api), in the Chrome for Developers blog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See also:
* [@position-try CSS at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@position-try), at MDN.
```

1. Select the **Show CSS documentation tooltip** checkbox.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### View selector specificity
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#selector-specificity -->

Hover over a CSS selector, to display a tooltip that shows the selector's specificity weight, such as: **Specificity: (0,0,1)**:

For example:

1. Go to a webpage, such as [To Do app](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/demo-to-do/), in a new window or tab.

1. Right-click the webpage, and then click **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, with the **Elements** tool selected.

1. In the DOM tree, select the `<body>` element.

1. In the **Styles** tab, hover over the `body` CSS selector.

   A tooltip is displayed, showing **Specificity: (0,0,1)**:

   ![The tooltip with specificity weight of a matched selector](./reference-images/the-tooltip-specificity.png)

See also:
* [Specificity](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity) - MDN.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### View the values of custom properties
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#custom-css -->

> Hover over a `--custom-property` to see its value in a tooltip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hover over a `var(--custom-property)` function to see the value of the custom property in a tooltip.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Navigate with links
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#links -->

<!-- todo: format, link, pngs -->

The **Styles** tab displays links in various places to various other places, including but not limited to:

* Next to CSS rules, to style sheets and CSS sources. Such links open the **Sources** tool.  If the style sheet is minified, see [Make a minified file readable].  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/javascript/reference#format

* In the **Inherited from** sections, to parent elements.

> * In `var()` calls, to custom property declarations.

Author: link, like in upstream https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#links

* In animation shorthand properties, to @keyframes.

* Learn more links in documentation tooltips.

> * And more.

Author: ```suggestion
```
redun w/ lead-in "but not limited to"

> Here are some of them highlighted:

Author: ```suggestion
Here are some of the foo highlighted:
```
be specific, avoid pronouns

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### View CSS at-rules
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#at-rules -->

At-rules are CSS statements that let you control CSS behavior.

In the **Elements** tool, the **Styles** tab shows the following at-rules in dedicated sections:

* `@property` - see [View `@property` at-rules](#view-property-at-rules), below.
* `@supports` - see [View `@supports` at-rules](#view-supports-at-rules), below.
* `@scope` - see [View `@scope` at-rules](#view-scope-at-rules), below.
* `@font-palette-values` - see [View `@font-palette-values` at-rules](#view-font-palette-values-at-rules), below.
* `@position-try` - see [View `@position-try` at-rules](#view-position-try-at-rules), below.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### View `@property` at-rules
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#property -->

> The `@property` CSS at-rule lets you define CSS custom properties explicitly and register them in a style sheet without running any JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@property` CSS at-rule lets you define CSS custom properties of specific types in a style sheet.
```

Hover over the name of such a property in the **Styles** tab, to see a tooltip that contains:
* The property's value, such as `20%`.
* The property's descriptors, such as: `initial value: 40%`
* A **View registered property** link to its registration in the collapsible `@property` section at the bottom of the **Styles** tab.

For example:

1. Go to a page that uses the `@property` at-rule, such as [View `@property` at-rules](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/at-rules-property/), in a new window or tab.

1. Right-click the **Item three** paragraph, and then click **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, with the **Elements** tool selected.

> 1. In the **Styles** tab, hover over the name of a CSS custom property that's defined by the `@property` CSS at-rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Styles** tab, hover over that `var(--itemSize)` function:
```

>    ![Tooltip for the @property CSS at-rule](./reference-images/at-property-tooltip.png)

Reviewer: Weird, there's some text appearing below the image which I don't see here in the markdown:

<img width="709" height="592" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f3db3fa1-d762-475e-8bd7-f376802fe6e6" />

   The tooltip contains:
   * The property's value, such as `100px`.
   * The property's descriptors, such as initial value.
   * A **View registered property** link.

1. Click the **View registered property** link.

   The expanded **@property** section is displayed, further down in the **Styles** tab:

>    ![--itemSize in @property section](./reference-images/at-property-itemsize.png)

Reviewer: Same here:

<img width="688" height="546" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/21357eca-7123-4e3e-842a-b056dfe54e9f" />

To edit an `@property` rule, double-click its name or value.  See [Change a declaration name or value](#change-a-declaration-name-or-value), below.

See also:
* [@property: giving superpowers to CSS variables](https://web.dev/articles/at-property) at Web.dev.
* [Custom properties (--*): CSS variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/--*) at MDN.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### View `@supports` at-rules
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#supports -->

The **Styles** tab shows you the `@supports` CSS at-rules, if they are applied to an element.

For example, to view the `@supports` rule:

> 1. In a new window or tab, go to a page that uses the `@supports` at-rule, such as [View `@supports` at-rules](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/at-rules-supports/):

Reviewer: Missing step 2 that asks users to open DevTools and inspect the box element.

>    ![Result of HTML for @supports at-rule](./reference-images/view-supports-rules.png)

Reviewer: <img width="715" height="603" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/356ae4b8-1d9e-4ef5-b8b0-fba02ce1efcd" />

* If your browser supports the `lab()` function, the element is green.

* If your browser doesn't support the `lab()` function, the element is purple.

To see which browser versions support the CIE LAB color space, [search Caniuse.com for "lab"](https://caniuse.com/?search=lab).

<!-- ---------- -->
###### View `@scope` at-rules
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#scope -->

> The **Styles** tab displays CSS @scope at-rules if they are applied to an element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Styles** tab displays CSS `@scope` at-rules if they are applied to an element.
```

See also:
* [Scoping Styles: the @scope rule](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade-6/#scope-atrule) at W3C.

> The `@scope` at-rules are a part of the [CSS Cascading and Inheritance Module Level 6](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade-6/) specification at W3C.  These rules allow you to scope CSS styles; that is, explicitly apply styles to specific elements.

Reviewer: Better link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@scope instead. W3C specs are not meant for web developers.

To view the `@scope` rule:

> 1. In a new window or tab, go to `edge://flags/#enable-experimental-web-platform-features`, and then enable the **Experimental Web Platform features** flag.

Reviewer: Remove this step, the `@scope` feature is not on by default. No need to enable it first.

1. In a new window or tab, go to a page that uses the `@scope` at-rule, such as the [View `@scope` at-rules](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/at-rules-scope/) demo:

>    ![Result of HTML & CSS for @scope at-rule](./reference-images/at-scope-at-rule-rendered.png)

Reviewer: <img width="693" height="384" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f1047f77-169d-453a-aa9f-daa8a76ab1f1" />

1. Right-click "I'm the text that lives on a card", and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, with the **Elements** tool selected.

1. Select the **Styles** tab.

1. Examine the `@scope` rule:

>    ![The @scope rule in the Styles tab](./reference-images/scope-rule-in-styles-tab.png)

Reviewer: <img width="720" height="661" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e9259b13-456b-4cd7-b5ea-1a24b4920c39" />

It seems like using `@` inside an image alt-text is causing this.

I suggest doing this instead (here and in other images):

```suggestion
   ![The at-scope rule in the Styles tab](./reference-images/scope-rule-in-styles-tab.png)
```

   In this example, the `@scope` rule (background color = plum) overrides the global CSS `background-color` declaration (aquamarine), for any `<p>` element that's inside an element (such as a `<div>`) that has a `card` class.

   From `index.html`:

   ```html
   <p>I'm just a piece of text.</p>
   <div class="card">
     <p>I'm the text that lives on a card.</p>
   </div>
   ```
   
   From `styles.css`:
   
   ```css
   @scope (.card) {
     p {
       background-color: plum;
     }
   }
   p {
     width: max-content;
     background-color: aquamarine;
   }
   .card {
     box-shadow: 0 10px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.2);
     border-style: groove;
     transition: 0.3s;
     border-radius: 10px;
     padding: 0px 16px;
   }

>    ```

Reviewer: I suggest removing this whole part. Too much information for such a small feature. We don't describe the sample code in other similar sections. I don't think we should here either.

   To edit the `@scope` rule, you double-click in the rule:

1. In the **Styles** tab, double-click **plum**, press **Delete**, and then select **beige**.

   The text in the card in the demo webpage changes from plum background to beige background.

> 1. Cleanup: In a new window or tab, go to `edge://flags/#enable-experimental-web-platform-features`, and then disable the **Experimental Web Platform features** flag.

Reviewer: This step can be removed.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### View `@font-palette-values` at-rules
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#font-palette-values -->

The [@font-palette-values CSS at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/@font-palette-values) lets you customize (override) the default values of the `font-palette` property.  In the **Elements** tool, the **Styles** tab shows this at-rule in a dedicated section.

To view the `@font-palette-values` CSS rule:

> 1. In a new window or tab, go to `edge://flags/#enable-experimental-web-platform-features`, and then enable the **Experimental Web Platform features** flag.

Reviewer: Not needed, this feature shipped with Edge 101.

1. In a new window or tab, go to a page that uses the `@font-palette-values` at-rule, such as the [View `@font-palette-values` at-rules](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/at-rules-font-palette-values/) demo.

1. Right-click "new colors", and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, with the **Elements** tool selected.

1. In the **Styles** tab, find the `@font-palette-values` CSS rule:

>    ![The @font-palette-values rule in the Styles tab](./reference-images/at-font-palette-values-at-rule-rendered.png)

Reviewer: <img width="701" height="599" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/09855dbf-c993-43ed-aa9d-1e197dcb3af7" />

In the **Elements** tool, the **Styles** tab resolves and links the following:

* The `position-try-fallbacks` property values (or `position-try-options` property values) link to a dedicated `@position-try --name` CSS rule section.

* The `position-anchor` property values and `anchor()` arguments link to the corresponding elements that have `popovertarget` attributes.

For example, inspect the `position-try-fallbacks` values and `@position-try` CSS rules, as follows:

1. In a new window or tab, go to a page that uses the  `position-try-fallbacks` values and `@position-try` at-rule, such as the [View `@position-try` at-rules](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/at-rules-position-try/) demo.

1. In the rendered webpage, open the submenu; that is, click **YOUR ACCOUNT**, and then click **STOREFRONT**.

   The submenu is displayed, showing a list of commands: **LISTINGS**, **SPECIAL OFFERS**, **SIGN OUT**.

1. In the submenu, right-click above **LISTINGS**, and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, with the **Elements** tool selected.  The submenu element `<ul id="submenu">` is selected in the DOM tree:

>    ![Result of HTML & CSS for @position-try at-rule](./reference-images/at-position-try-at-rule-rendered.png)

Reviewer: <img width="694" height="594" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/08ce6812-ad11-49a8-be5f-89cb32ffb361" />

1. In the **Styles** tab, in the `#submenu` CSS rule, find the `position-try-fallbacks` property, and click its `--bottom` value.

   The **Styles** tab scrolls down to the corresponding `@position-try` section:

>    ![The @position-try section in the Styles tab](./reference-images/position-try-rule-in-styles-tab.png)

Reviewer: <img width="685" height="618" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cb419ecd-efdb-4ccc-9a8c-609c105b2a86" />

**Caution:** When this option is on, the `document.visibilityState` is set to `visible` and the `visibilitychange` event doesn't fire.  See [Page Visibility API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Page_Visibility_API) at MDN.

To try emulating a focused page:

1. Open the [Emulate a focused page](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/emulate-focused-page/) demo in a new window or tab.

1. Click the input text box.  Or, press **Tab** to put focus on the input text box.

   Another element appears under the input text box, saying "This message only appears when the text box is focused."

1. Right-click the input text box, and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, and the message element disappears.  The DevTools window is now in focus, instead of the inspected webpage, so the message element disappears.

1. In the **Elements** tool, in the **Styles** tab, click `:hov` (**Toggle Element State**), and then select the **Emulate a focused page** checkbox.

1. Make sure the input text box element `<input id="textBox" type="text">` is still selected.

   Under the input text box, the message element reappears below the input text box.

>    You can now inspect and debug (in the **Sources** tool) the message element that's below the input text box, even though DevTools, rather than the inspected page, has focus:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can now inspect the message element that's below the input text box, even though DevTools, rather than the inspected page, has focus:
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### View cascade layers
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#cascade-layers -->

Cascade layers enable more explicit control of your CSS files, to prevent style-specificity conflicts.  This is useful for:
* Large codebases.
* System design.
* Managing third-party styles.

To view cascade layers:

1. Go to a webpage that uses cascade layers, such as the [Cascade layers](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/cascade-layers/) demo.

1. Right-click the "My styles are layered!" element, and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens.

1. In the **Elements** tool, select the **Styles** tab.

1. In the **Styles** tab, view the three cascade layers and their styles: `page`, `component` and `base`:

   ![Cascade layers](./reference-images/cascade-layers.png)

1. To view the layer order, click the layer name (**page**, **component**, or **base**).  Or, click the ![Toggle CSS Layers view icon](./reference-images/toggle-css-layers-view-icon.png) **Toggle CSS Layers view** button.

   The `page` layer has the highest specificity, therefore the element's background is green.

See also:

> * [Cascade layers are coming to your browser](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/cascade-layers), in the Chrome for Developers blog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See also:
* [Cascade layers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Cascade_layers), at MDN.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### View inherited highlight pseudo-elements
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#view-inherited-highlight-pseudo-elements -->

Pseudo-elements let you style specific parts of elements.  Highlight pseudo-elements are document portions with a "selected" status and they are styled as "highlighted" to indicate this status to the user.

For example, such pseudo-elements are:
* `::selection`
* `::spelling-error`
* `::grammar-error`
* `::highlight`

> When multiple styles conflict, cascade determines the winning style; see [3.5. Cascading and Per-Element Highlight Styles](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-pseudo-4/#highlight-cascade) in _CSS Pseudo-Elements Module Level 4_ at W3C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multiple styles conflict, the CSS cascade determines the winning style. To learn more, see [Introduction to the CSS cascade](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Introduction) at MDN.
```

1. Select a portion of the text "I inherited the style of my parent's highlight pseudo-element. Select me!"

   The selected text changes to red text on yellow background.

1. Right-click the text "I inherited the style of my parent's highlight pseudo-element. Select me!", and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens.  In the **Elements** tool, in the **Styles** tab, the section is displayed: **Inherited from ::selection pseudo of div.text-parent**:

   ![View the Inherited section in the Styles tab](./reference-images/view-inherited-section.png)

1. In the DOM tree, select the `<div class="text-parent">` element.

   In the **Styles** tab, the section is displayed: **Pseudo ::selection element**:

   ![View the Pseudo section in the Styles tab](./reference-images/view-pseudo-section.png)

From `index.html`:

```html
<div class="text-parent">
  <div class="highlighted-text">I inherited the style of my parent's highlight pseudo-element.  Select me!</div>
</div>
<style>
  .text-parent::selection {
    background: #ff0;
    color: #ff1493;
  }
</style>

> ```

Reviewer: I think we should remove this.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Copy CSS
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#copy-css -->

From a single dropdown menu in the **Styles** tab, you can copy separate CSS rules, declarations, properties, or values; see [CSS syntax basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/What_is_CSS#css_syntax_basics) in _What is CSS?_ at MDN.

Additionally, you can copy CSS properties in JavaScript syntax.  This option is handy if you're using CSS-in-JS libraries; see [Style editing for CSS-in-JS frameworks](./css-in-js.md).

To copy CSS:

1. Go to a webpage that uses CSS, such as [To Do app](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/demo-to-do/), in a new window or tab.

1. Right-click the webpage, and then click **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens, with the **Elements** tool selected.

1. In the DOM tree, select an element, such as `<h1>`.

1. In the **Styles** tab, within a CSS rule, right-click a CSS property, such as `text-align: center`:

   ![Copy CSS dropdown menu](./reference-images/copy-css-dropdown-menu.png)

1. Select a right-click menuitem:

>    * **Copy declaration**.  Copies the property and its value in CSS syntax: `css property: value;`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Copy declaration**.  Copies the property and its value in CSS syntax: `property: value;`
```

   * **Copy property**.  Copies only the `property` name.

   * **Copy value**.  Copies only the `value`.

>    * **Copy rule**.  Copies the entire CSS rule: `css selector[, selector] { property: value; property: value; ... }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Copy rule**.  Copies the entire CSS rule: `selector[, selector] { property: value; property: value; ... }`
```

>    * **Copy declaration as JS**.  Copies the property and its value in JavaScript syntax: `js propertyInCamelCase: 'value'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Copy declaration as JS**.  Copies the property and its value in JavaScript syntax: `propertyInCamelCase: 'value'`
```

>    * **Copy all declarations**.  Copies all properties and their values in the CSS rule: `css property: value; property: value; ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Copy all declarations**.  Copies all properties and their values in the CSS syntax: `property: value; property: value; ...`
```

>    * **Copy all declarations as JS**.  Copies all properties and their values in JavaScript syntax: `js propertyInCamelCase: 'value', propertyInCamelCase: 'value', ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Copy all declarations as JS**.  Copies all properties and their values in JavaScript syntax: `propertyInCamelCase: 'value', propertyInCamelCase: 'value', ...`
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Change enumerable values with keyboard shortcuts
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#values-shortcuts -->

While editing an enumerable value of a declaration, for example, `font-size`, you can use the following keyboard shortcuts to increment the value by a fixed amount:

| Key combination | Action |
|---|---|
| **Alt+UpArrow** (Windows, Linux), **Option+UpArrow** (macOS) | Increment by 0.1. |
| **UpArrow** | Increment by 1, or by 0.1 if the current value is between -1 and 1. |
| **Shift+UpArrow** | Increment by 10. |
| **Ctrl+Shift+PgUp** (Windows, Linux), **Shift+Command+UpArrow** (macOS) | Increment by 100. |

To decrement, press **DownArrow** instead of **UpArrow**.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Change length values
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#change-length-value -->

You can use your pointer to change any property that has a length value, such as `width`, `height`, `padding`, `margin`, or `border`.

> _todo: is "length" correct?  any size measurement?_

Reviewer: "length" is the correct CSS type for the properties like "width", so yes, I suggest using this word.

1. In the **Styles** tab, in the `.new-task-form` CSS rule, in the `max-width:` property, hover over `50rem`.

   A tooltip appears, showing the equivalent value and units: `800px`.

1. Click the value `50rem`.

   A tooltip appears: "Increment/decrement with mousewheel or up/down keys.  Ctrl: +/-100, Shift: +/-10, Alt: +/-0.1"

1. Move the mousewheel, or press **UpArrow** and **DownArrow** keys, while pressing a key:

   **Ctrl**: Increment by 100.
   **Shift**: Increment by 10.
   **Alt**: Increment by 0.1.

   In the inspected webpage, the **Add a task** input text box changes width as you change the value.

1. In the max-width property's value field, make the value `200px` (changing from `rem` units to `px` units).

1. Again move the mousewheel, or press **UpArrow** and **DownArrow** keys, while holding the **Ctrl** (+/-100), **Shift** (+/-10), or **Alt** (+/-0.1) key.

   In the inspected webpage, the **Add a task** input text box changes width as you change the value:

   ![Changing the max-width of the input text box](./reference-images/change-length-values.png)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Increment numerical declaration values

Reviewer: Isn't this a duplicate from "Change enumerable values with keyboard shortcuts"?

Author: merged non-upstream section "Increment numerical declaration values" into "Change enumerable values with keyboard shortcuts"

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Emulate light and dark theme preferences and enable automatic dark mode
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#emulate-light-dark-themes -->

To toggle automatic dark mode, or emulate the user's preference of light or dark themes:

> 1. In the **Elements** tool, in the **Styles** tab, click [Paintbrush icon](./reference-images/toggle-common-rendering-emulations-icon.png) **Toggle common rendering emulations** in the upper right:

Reviewer: The icon image is missing on the rendered page:

<img width="664" height="98" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c9062ce-cdb1-427b-91a9-e99407cab16a" />

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Edit the `::view-transition` pseudo-elements during an animation
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#view-transition -->

See:
* [Edit the ::view-transition pseudo-elements during an animation](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/animations#view-transition) in _Animations: Inspect and modify CSS animation effects_, in Chrome docs.  _todolink: is there a non-Chrome link instead?_

> * [Smooth transitions with the View Transition API](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/view-transitions) in Chrome docs.  _todolink: change to a non-Chrome link?_

Reviewer: Please create an ADO item to get these docs downstream.

Author: AB#62591100

* [View `@font-palette-values` at-rules](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/at-rules-font-palette-values/)
* [View `@position-try` at-rules](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/at-rules-position-try/)
* [Emulate a focused page](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/emulate-focused-page/)
* [Highlight pseudo-elements](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/highlight-pseudo-elements/)
* [Cascade layers](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/cascade-layers/)
* [1DIV](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/1DIV/dist/)
* [Animated property demo page](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-animated-property-issue/)

MDN:
* [Using CSS custom properties (variables)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties)
* [`padding` CSS property](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/padding)
* [Specificity](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity)
* [Custom properties (`--*`): CSS variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/--*)
   * [Custom properties (`--*`): CSS variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/--*)

> * [`@scope` CSS at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@scope)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`@scope` CSS at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@scope)
* [@position-try CSS at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/@position-try)
```

* [@font-palette-values CSS at-rule](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/@font-palette-values)
* [The box model](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/CSS/Introduction_to_CSS/Box_model)
* [Page Visibility API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Page_Visibility_API)
* [`:active`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:active)
* [`:focus`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:focus)
* [`:focus-within`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-within)
* [`:target`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:target)
* [`:hover`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:hover)
* [`:focus-visible`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible)
* [Introduction to the CSS cascade](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Introduction)

> * [Pseudo-elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Pseudo-elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements)
* [Cascade layers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/Cascade_layers).
```

* [CSS syntax basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/Styling_basics/What_is_CSS#css_syntax_basics) in _What is CSS?_
* [Selector Types](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity#Selector_Types) in _Specificity_.
* [animation-timing-function](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timing-function)
* [transition-timing-function](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/transition-timing-function)
* [Bézier curve](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Bezier_curve)

GitHub:
* [VS Code Custom Data](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-custom-data) - the "microsoft / vscode-custom-data" repo.

Web.dev:
* [@property: giving superpowers to CSS variables](https://web.dev/articles/at-property)
* [prefers-color-scheme: Hello darkness, my old friend](https://web.dev/articles/prefers-color-scheme)

W3C:
* [The @position-try Rule](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-anchor-position-1/#fallback-rule) in _CSS Anchor Positioning Module Level 1_ at w3.org.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Chrome for Developers blog:

> * [Introducing the CSS anchor positioning API](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/anchor-positioning-api)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* [Freeze screen & inspect disappearing elements](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/devtools-tips-35)

> * [Cascade layers are coming to your browser](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/cascade-layers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   | ease-out | Out, Quadratic | `cubic-bezier(0.25, 0.46, 0.45, 0.94)` |
   | ease-out | Out, Cubic | `cubic-bezier(0.22, 0.61, 0.36, 1)` |
   | ease-out | Linear Out, Slow In | `cubic-bezier(0, 0, 0.2, 1)` |
   | ease-out | Out, Back | `cubic-bezier(0.18, 0.89, 0.32, 1.28)` |
   
See also:
* [Bézier curve](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Bezier_curve) at MDN.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Configure custom timings
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/css/reference/#custom-timings -->

To set custom values for timing functions, use the control points on the lines:

* For linear functions, click anywhere on the line to add a control point and drag it.  To remove a control point, double-click it.

   ![Dragging a control point of a linear function](./reference-images/dragging-control-point.png)

* For Cubic Bezier functions, drag one of the control points:

   ![Dragging the control points of a Cubic Bezier function](./reference-images/dragging-control-points.png)

Any change triggers a ball animation in the **Preview** at the top of the **Easing Editor**.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

> _todo: all links in article_

Reviewer: TODO

* [Animated CSS Property demo](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-animated-property-issue/)
   * [/devtools-animated-property-issue/](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/tree/main/devtools-animated-property-issue/) - Readme and source code.

W3C:

> * [Scoping Styles: the @scope rule](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade-6/#scope-atrule) at W3C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's avoid linking to specs, unless we really have to (such as in release notes, for very cutting edge features that are not documented on MDN yet).
